---
title: "Tutorial"
layout: post
---
### Intruduction
The National Hockey League (NHL; French: Ligue nationale de hockey—LNH) is a professional ice hockey league in North America comprising 32 teams—25 in the United States and 7 in Canada. It is considered to be the top ranked professional ice hockey league in the world, and is one of the major professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada. The Stanley Cup, the oldest professional sports trophy in North America,is awarded annually to the league playoff champion at the end of each season. The NHL is the fifth-wealthiest professional sport league in the world by revenue, after the National Football League (NFL), Major League Baseball (MLB), the National Basketball Association (NBA), and the English Premier League (EPL)
[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Hockey_League]



## Motivation of the project
The purpose of this project is to provide a Python API for accessing NHL game data including plays by plays informations such as game summaries, player stats and play-by-play visualizations. They're all lots good information that is hides on NHL API website scraping process regarding the outputs. In this project we are trying to show all NHL analytics we could like to seek from NHL API.
Our package can extract let's say all most the game summary report as well as show and finally permit advanced data visualisations.
## Tutorial
We provide some functions that accept the target year and a filepath as an argument and then checks at the specified filepath for a file corresponding to the dataset that we are going to download. If it exists, it could immediately open up the file and return the saved contents. If not, it could download the contents from the REST API and save it to the file before returning the data. This means that the first time we run this function, it will automatically download and cache the data locally, and the next time we run the same function, it will instead load the local data.
## Installation
Getting started is as easy as:
Pip install ????
 
## Usage Example 
To download the data for seasons 2017: 
```{python}
get_all_data_by_season(year=2017, out_path="2017")
```
To have in data frame format for spsific game ID :
```{python}
get_goal_shots_data_by_game_id(game_id=2017020001)
```
 Here is a summrize on what we have in our implementation
 ```{python}
 get_json_path(game_id: int):
 ```
 **get_json_path** function takes an input game id and return the location of the json file
  ```{python}
flatten_player_data(player_list):
 ```
**flatten_player_data** function transform list of players into a flatten encoded string in the form of list of players data.

```{python}    
get_goal_shots_data_by_game_id(game_id: int):
```

**get_goal_shots_data_by_game_id** function transforms the json data into a data frame by filtering the relevant live data of the matchs which is   restricted to Shots and Goals

 ```{python}    
    get_all_relevant_game_ids_by_season(season_year: int):
 ```
**get_all_relevant_game_ids_by_season** function fetches all the game ids having game type Regular Season and Playoffs
```{python}

save_data_to_json(year, game_type, data, save_path)
 ```
**save_data_to_json** function which will help the extracted data from the NHL API locally into a json file
```{python}
    get_all_data_by_season(year: int, out_path: str)
 ```
**get_all_data_by_season**This function will fetch both the games which are regular seasons and playoffs for the entire season

